CMV: Religion is not violent or not violent, its followers are.

So recently I've seen a lot of posts condemning Islam as a violent religion or a sexist religion.
I point out that many Christians follow the bible which has numerous examples of sexism, but in application, there are numerous branches of Christianity that are no more sexist than secular groups.
For example, Congregationalists and Universaliists.

So, my belief is that while religion can inform the views of people, it is far more likely that religion will be used to justify actions that would have been executed any way. I think that most Jewish people don't want to stone adulterers and most Muslims don't want to stone non believers.


Most branches of modern religions aren't inherently violent , and there are complex socio-political issues involving the ones that are ( e.g. how much of the violence perpetrated by Wahabist Islamists is based off of true religious fanaticism , and how much is caused by angry, politically disenfranchised young men who seek out an ideology that justifies their anger with America/the West ), but that does not mean that a religion cannot have violence as an integral part of it , and there are historical examples of this. Vikings believed that the highest achievement and best place in the afterlife were gained by dying bravely in battle.
The Thuggee cult believed that the murder of innocents was necessary to appease Kali and prevent the destruction of the world.
Aztecs required human sacrifice in their religious rituals.

Perhaps some facets of these historical religions were based off of a desire to justify actions that the original practitioners would have done anyway , but the belief eventually becomes the driving force and incentive for the action in later generations.
You are probably right that cultural norms are extremely influential in the creation of a religion , but once that religion is established as the capital-T Truth, the tail begins wagging the dog and culture shifts to accomodate and protect that Truth.
Many religions have historically encouraged, or even required violence, and once that religion and it's expectation of violence is established, it makes it much more difficult to enact societal change on the group.
It's hard enough to change a social norm of violence when it's simply cultural, it's even harder if people have been conditioned to believe that the norm is all that stands in the way of preventing the end of the world or is a persons only way into Valhalla.
I think in those cases we can both say that the religion is inherently violent , and that even if culture helped start that norm it eventually becomes the religion that causes the actions.

This is exactly the kind of explanation I was looking for.
I'm on mobile, but I'll award you a delta when I get home.
You've appealed to all my sensibilities around this kind of issue while only making statements I agree with to change my view.
That was terrific.

&#8710;

