CMV: Eugenics isn't all that bad... And we don't even have to kill anyone for it

Okay, I'm talking about making the human race smarter, forever.
Intelligence is at least partially genetic and therefore passed down by parents , yes? [Yes.](http://www.the-scientist.com/?articles.view/articleNo/40459/title/Inherited-Intelligence/)

So, what if, instead of killing off the less-intelligent people ( I'm against killing.
Of most things.)
we just limit offspring?

For example, we could use the IQ scale (for want of a better intelligence measure) to determine the number of offspring a person should be able to genetically contribute to.
Like, round the IQ to the nearest multiple of 50, then divide by 50, and that's the number of offspring you're allowed to create.

So someone with near average intelligence (near 100 IQ, 75-124) would have their IQ rounded to 100 and then divided by 50 to make 2 offspring.
The total offspring is presumably equal to the number of people who contributed to it.
A man and a woman with average IQ can have two children (not each.) and sustain their population.

Conversely, really above average IQs of 125-174 can contribute genetically towards 3 children... and so on.

This would eventually make the human race smarter , and therefore more likely to survive and advance the human race.

I know this would be a bitch to implement and it's near impossible to actually do , but I'm just looking at the concept.
I know the IQ test has its faults and every policy can be abused ... I know all that.

Exceptions would be made when you accidentally have twins which causes you to go over your limit , or etc.
( If a mother can make 2, and has twins, she can't make more, but if she already has one and has twins after one which makes 3, we're not gonna kill one )

Perhaps if you have a major, heritable health issue your IQ has 25 subtracted from it before being rounded?
Or maybe weighted differently, like extremely high chance of cancer (almost 100 percent or something) takes off more... Something like that.

Much better than "Kill off those with IQ less than 80"

I wouldn't mind a smarter human race...

EDIT: **I am trying to argue that this process, if not abused, if followed by the people, and if we found an increasingly accurate measure of intelligence, would be ultimately a good thing to advance the human race.**

EDIT 2: "**It looks to me like you've made so many exceptions to your main view that you aren't looking to have your view changed. I'd like to talk about the title of your post, but if you have to make so many exceptions to your view, then it seems you already know it's incorrect.**" -nikeson
I suppose that's true, now....


It looks to me like you've made so many exceptions to your main view that you aren't looking to have your view changed .
I'd like to talk about the title of your post, but if you have to make so many exceptions to your view, then it seems you already know it's incorrect .


*applies aloe to burn*
&#8710;
Edit: Delta because nikeson proved that my argument has changed so much from my main point that it really just proves my argument wrong .
Sorry for not explaining

