CMV:Patriotism is the belief that being born on one side of a line makes you better.

American patriots have a general mentality against immigration.
Saying these people shouldn’t be allowed to become part of the country, is the same as saying they are worse, because they were born on a different side of a line , and americans are better because of the side of the line they are born on .
This is prominent in many ads and political champagnes, namely the slogan “Creating jobs for americans”.
I understand why politics use this slogan , because they are trying to get americans to vote for them , but this slogan is also prominent in ads made by private corporations .
As if creating jobs for americans is morally superior to creating jobs for people of other countries.
The companies launching these ads may be trying to win in the american market, so they can sell more of their product, but the fact that this can increase sales shows that many americans hold the being born on one side of a line belief .
I am not blaming the politicians or corporations running ads running these slogans , they are merely trying to win votes or make money from this mentality , but really it is the citizens that have the belief that they are better, because of the side of a line they are born on, that are at fault .
Patriotism is really just this belief.

in this post you are confusing patriotism with its meaner, uglier cousin, nationalism.
According to George Orwell, Nationalism is the "worst enemy of peace".
According to him, nationalism is the thought of superiority of one's nation in direct comparison to foreign nations, whereas patriotism is simply the love and admiration of one's own country, independent of other countries.
Nationalism is the one that says "America is the best, most perfect country in the world, unlike those other horrible, dirty, evil foreign countries.
Americans are the shining example of civil people in the world and everyone else is filthy and brutish and doesn't deserve entry here".
Patriotism simply says "America is a good country. its not the best, and it might be better or worse than other countries, but i still love and respect it".

&gt; it is the citizens that have the belief that they are better

they do not have a belief that they are better.
they have the belief that they are American , and would prefer their country over other countries, regardless of who's better

&gt; As if creating jobs for Americans is morally superior to creating jobs for people of other countries

not morally superior, but makes more sense.
even if countries are peaceful and cooperative towards each other, they are still in competition and no matter what, they are still separate and independent. and in a competition, you don't provide for the opposite side.
It is simply not our place or responsibility to carry other countries' burdens.
And these slogans don't even denote any sense of superiority over a foreign country, just a preference for your own country.
if an advertisement was "creating jobs for Americans and not for those dirty foreign leeches", THAT would be claiming superiority over foreigners.
And ultimately, patriotism means different things to different people.
i’m sure for a great many people, it is patriotic to welcome and accept immigrants as equals under our ideals of equality and freedom

∆ This comment changed my view, because you said that people love their country, even if their country isn't objectively the best.
This is mostly illustrated in the following sentences "Patriotism simply says "America is a good country.
its not the best, and it might be better or worse than other countries, but i still love and respect it", and "they do not have a belief that they are better.
they have the belief that they are American, and would prefer their country over other countries, regardless of who's better".
