CMV: People over the retirement age (62) should not be allowed to participate in politics.

I've noticed that nearly everyone in Washington is extremely old.
I have always thought that that was a bad thing , because of a few reasons: 1. if you are already old, then the long-term consequences of your decisions probably won't happen until after you are gone, but will be horrible for all of us that are still around,
2.
if you are already retired, then you wouldn't know what it is like for a working person today, especially someone struggling to live paycheck-to-paycheck .

TL;DR: old people shouldn't be in politics because the consequences of their decisions won't affect them , and they don't understand what the circumstances of today are .



Some of your criticisms are definitely valid .
However, older people often have more varied or extensive life experiences to draw on, and do not generally make decisions in a vacuum .

For example, imagine a relatively long (30+ years) period of peace .
All of a sudden, war is a possibility . I would like my decision-making body to have at least a few people who might have had prior experience with a war .

Additionally, when you elect someone, like your senator, you're not just electing them, you're also electing their entire staff .
The senator might not have direct experience of what it's like to be a working person today, but does that matter as long as they have someone who can explain it to them in such a way that they understand and accept it ?


Although it's highly unlikely that there would be a long period without conflict , I can see how something similar could happen .
However, it's not like the previous generation's knowledge would have disappeared there are thousands of guides and essays about every topic .


sure , but guides and essays are not necessarily the same as personal experience .
I was using that point to support the more general statement that older people often have a breadth and depth of experience that younger people may or may not have , and that is useful for decision making in a political context .


I guess we will always need first-hand experience when odd situations come up
. I'll give you a delta in a bit when I'm on not on mobile.

EDIT: Here it is: &amp;#8710; Merry Christmas

