CMV: There is only one "right" way to play the Mass Effect series (spoilers)

*for title clarification, I am NOT referring to either of the paragon or renegade affiliations as the main topic for this post*

The Mass Effect games, however flawed though they may be, are some of my favorite games of all time.
Now that my bias is clear, I want to say that the completely irrational anger that you may see in the post below IS the reason I'd like my view changed.
I apologize for offending anyone and for sounding like an ass.
Needless to say, this post is really only meant for those who've played the series, but if you're not afraid of spoilers then feel free to chime in.

So here's the brunt of my CMV: If you let any one of your squadmates die, (unless their deaths are unavoidable) you are:

a.) incompetent

Talk to squadmates semi-regularly, do the loyalty missions, buy the ship upgrades, and -for Gaben's sake- put some points into persuade (you Neanderthal!), and don't make stupid (YES STUPID) choices during the final ME2 mission.
It's really not that difficult with a little common sense!
RNG killed Mordin during the suicide mission?
RELOAD A DAMN SAVE.
It's worth it dammit!

b.) rushing/missing the damn point of the game
Don't give me that "I don't have time" crap; you bought an RPG!
You're already taking a good bit time to play the game , so why not take a little more and immerse yourself in the sexy sci-fi universe you paid good money for?
You get so much more out of the experience if you just take the time to explore.

c.) unfit to fairly criticize the series

Firstly, I want to say that I do agree with most of the criticisms of the plot and that it could have been much better than what it was (see the original Kapysharn plot outline for details).
However despite its shortcomings, I believe that the real heart of the Mass Effect franchise lies not with the story or the narrative, but with its characters .
With only a couple exceptions, the vast majority of Shepard's crew are interesting, fleshed-out characters, each with their own flaws and redeeming qualities.

For example, (SPOILERS ME3) seeing Wrex grow from a mere gun-for-hire in ME1 to the responsible, yet still badass leader of the Genophage-free Krogan in ME3 was one of the most gratifying experiences of my gaming career.
Similarly, the leap of faith Shepard takes when trusting Legion on Rannoch, thus ending hundreds of years of conflict and bringing the Quarians and Geth together was immensely satisfying and could easily qualify for /r/frission material.

Without these experiences, yeah, Mass Effect 3 didn't live up to the hype .
How could it?
It's such a hollow victory watching Wreav royally screw things up, or watching Tali commit suicide.
In my opinion, it's a complete waste of the player's time going about it that way.
Regardless of paragon or renegade alignment, I believe there is one right way to play Mass Effect: a completionist run where NO ONE dies.

I need help guys.
It's getting to the point where I can't even discuss Mass Effect with others without judging someone for letting my favorite characters bite the bullet.
Hell, I've put one of my friends off playing the games because I was backseat-gaming during his playthrough.
I WANT to believe that games should be played however the player wants to play them, but for whatever reason it's different for me when it comes to Mass Effect in particular.
Please, CMV!

EDIT: Just wanted to say that I don't take issue with making an intentionally flawed Shepard to see what it looks like. It's just I feel that some who were more critical of the game could've missed out on an important and fulfilling character later on because I a mistake, and that could have potentially negatively color their views and the public perception of the game as a whole.

Bah, apologies! I'm rambling, it's late, but I look forward to catching up with your comments tomorrow first thing! Thanks guys!


&gt;RELOAD A DAMN SAVE.

I completely disagree.
Savescumming for optimal results breaks most games and is intrinsically at odds with any mechanic involving the RNG.

Learn to live with your mistakes and move on.


I've never really understood the demonization of "save-scumming" to be honest, especially in a single-player game.
I don't personally view it as cheating at all, rather using the tools the game gives you.
How often do we get to go back and correct our mistakes in real life, anyway?
Why should a videogame be subject to the same limitations we have in reality?

