CMV: I feel skill is largely determined by experience. Compliments on skill are almost meaningless.

In high school, I thought I was "good at math" as I'm the son of a math teacher and electrical engineer .
In college, I learned that math was not something you're "good at" but something you have to put hard work into and is almost the sole determiner in the level of skill you obtain .

So then isn't almost any compliment almost to be expected? I've spent a lot of time with similar problems -- how could I not know all the details and little tricks of these problems?

I feel a compliment recognizes something given : I feel everyone is passionate about something , whether it be math or psychology or medicine ( I don't hear "you're so good at biology" but I think I should ).

I completely disagree. If you're really good at something, especially in college, you'll find you don't put in much effort .

Look around at classes. You'll see a group of people who study all day to get those good grades, and those that get them without cracking open the book.



In college, I tend to find students who enjoy the subject.
I recently took a class I enjoy, DSP. I had done previous DSP work for a couple semesters and had much more experience than almost everyone in class but I still put serious work in.

I put in serious work for this class, more work than any other class.
I enjoyed it ; how could I not?
I feel I learned much more from this work and my grade was a result of this work.
I have some more backing behind that ; I took other classes I enjoyed but did not put in serious hours and didn't learn what I should ( correspondingly I received a *good* but not *great* grade ).


So in the first case, it's hard to say whether you were truly good at the topic and just put in the time because you liked it, or if you needed the time.

I never put in extra time on classes.
The example of my theory was best evident in my CS classes :

A good portion of the class did well on assignments an tests.
Me and my friend did very well also.

The difference was, the majority of the class put in lots of time for assignments, prep, reading, and studying.
The two of us?
We didn't even buy the books, much less read them.

