CMV: Surplus Value Theorem is definitive proof that capitalism is an inefficient system.

As I understand it, and crudely explained, SVT says that in an economic system that lets people hire other people for labour , waste has to be produced in order for the system to function .

Example: Consider a society of 101 people: 100 workers and 1 boss.
The boss owns the factory where the workers work , and they produce, say, MLP dolls that everyone wants to buy .
The boss pays each of her workers £5 for each doll that the worker produces, and a worker produces 1 doll a day .
At the end of the day, the boss has 100 dolls, worth £1000 and has paid out £500 .
Wanting to make a profit on the dolls, the boss then sells the dolls for £10 each.
She is now trying to sell £1000 worth of dolls , but the only people available to sell to are the workers, who's total funds are £500 .
No matter how they rearrange the money between them, they will be unable to buy more than £500 worth of the dolls , and so the rest are waste inherent to the system and a direct result of the boss wanting to make profit.

This example then scales up to the whole world when you throw in multiple bosses and lots more workers but the basic idea is the same : if each worker is being paid less than the price of the things they produce so that their boss can profit , then items that cannot be sold must still be produced and thrown away.


*No* theorem is "proof"!

Theorems are explanations *of* facts - and it's *facts* that prove or disprove theorems.

Darwinian Theory doesn't prove evolution to be true - the facts in the real world (such as examples of fossils and stratigraphy and DNA etc) prove the Theory to be true.

Ultimately the proof/disproof of the efficiency/inefficiency of Capitalism/Communism must come from the comparison and evaluation of historical before and after facts e.g. East and West Germany, North and South Korea, Iron Rice Bowl China versus Free Market China.
The facts definitively disprove SVT!


I can't get wikibot to do it's stuff, but here: http://www.thefreedictionary.com/theorem

