CMV: The highest form of relationship between men and women doomed to be romance

Maybe it has to do with being an adolescent and being new to dealing with the opposite sex , but I'm beginning to fall under the assumption that the only purpose for guys to get to know girls is to eventually engage in romance.

"Why else do men engage women in conversation in public?" I wonder ( my perception might just be distorted after reading Neil Strauss's *The Game* ).
" Why do I feel like chasing after girls and getting to know them when I have so many great guy friends already who I know care about me so much more? Why can't I be friends with girls (even pretty ones) and not feel insecure when I don't try to advance some romantic agenda?
Why do I find myself inevitably becoming attracted to them? "

I have so many more questions regarding the non-romantic side of male-female relationships, but instead of writing an abhorrent block of text nobody could possibly be expected to read, I ask just the one title question (thinking that the above questions are more like fragments of a bigger picture of misunderstanding ) because I want to know what older, more mature people think .
It also must distort my view to have gone to an all-boy's school for the majority of my life.

At times, I feel like the interplay between men and women is always (at least always initially) a bs game where the man tries to show the woman how non-threatening and valuable he is from a non-romantic standpoint before she is comfortable with allowing herself to think of him as a safe partner .
Something about that seems so sinister, cynical, and hollow to me that I can't stand it .
Please change this view.


I'm a middle aged female.

Quit putting the pussy on a pedestal.
If you think that the only reason to get to know a female is to bone her you are doing 2 things 1) dehumanizing females a placing them in a category separate from yourself- almost like a separate class or subspecies... For an extreme example of this look at some Arab cultures where women have few rights and can't even show 1 square inch of forearm lest a man be tempted .
2) elevating a woman's  sexuality to a higher plane than where it deserves to be.
You are. Really.
Knock that pedestal over.
Women aren't putting your dick up there , don't put the pussy up there .
It just makes a guy look a little desperate when he treats a woman and her vagina like a magical unicorn.
Nobody worth dating really wants that in my book.
You may think you aren't guilty of this but by virtue of the fact that you think the sole goal of befriending a female is to fuck her , you are.
You are making the pussy very valuable.
Making friends with a lot of women actually devalues the shit out of it even if you aren't hitting it.
Which long term is a really great thing.

Continuing to think of women as magical pussy creatures who aren't worth befriending or even talking to unless you can eventually stick your cock into them is not a good way to form a healthy relationship if you manage to form one at all with those beliefs.

I've always had lots of male friends.
I just don't get along with women.
I'm straight.
I don't want to have relations with any of my male friends and afaik they don't expect any sex from me.
They all know I've been married for 12 years and am loyal.
All we do is hang out and play video games or board games and drink beer (admittedly its rare that I have the time with 2 kids to do this).
My husband is 100% OK with this and trusts me completely.


That is a really good point.
I guess I've been indoctrinated into thinking the way you described: that being friends with girls is something wholly separate from being friends with guys when it's not.

