CMV Me joining the army is not a waste of time nor does it conflict with my personality

I've always had a respect for the men in uniform and I've always wanted to join.
Recently I've disagreed with the practices of the U.S. military but that doesn't mean that I hate the Warriors, just the people that force them into it .
I'm an immigrant and a Muslim neither of which is or should be a deterrent from joining .
I want to be a doctor, not because of familial pressure but of a genuine need to help .
So here's where I am now: currently in first year of college studying biology, enough AP credits to be a tiny bit ahead of my classmates, an itching to explore this giant world God gave me, I'm also poor and medical school in the military (from what I understand) pays for smart kids.
Also, please forgive me if this is wrong or arrogant or whatever, I want the respect that people give men and women in the military.

My plan was to graduate College and join the USHS (the military medical school) and become and Army doctor.
The only reservation that I had was that it would be a waste of my time because I want to be a neurosurgeon and that's a looooooooong and rigorous path and that I might be losing precious time by joining the military .
My mom doesn't want me to join for that reason.
Other things that I've considered: I love the idea of a brotherhood but I don't agree with the ideology, the military putting me through Med school will help me jump start life, I'm very inexperienced and haven't seen much of the world and this I think will help me .

I look forward to having my views challenged!
Thanks!

I want to go a slightly different route here and ask why you would join the Army specifically?
Different branches have different options and very different lifestyles and culture .
For example, you mentioned that you wanted to see more of the world.
The best branch for that would be the Navy.
I get seasick lol.
The Marines aren't knows for their... Genius...
The air force isn't right for me because I couldn't fly and don't want to be an engineer .
Army it is then.
I think you need to get a bit better informed if you're going with those particular stereotypes .
Did you know the Army's minimum ASVAB score is lower than the Marines, for instance?
As for getting seasick, it's not as much of an issue on such large ships.
Don't go for the Coast Guard though, that's for sure.
And there is actually a decent chance to never set foot on a ship.
Especially since the Marines don't have their own medical services .
The Navy provides them.

In the end, I'd probably recommend the Airforce for you.
When you join the military, you sign a contract that gives you a specific(or not so specific if you join the Marines) job.
If there is a slot open for a doctor in the Airforce, they'll put in in your contract.
If there isn't, you can either wait or go to another branch.

Can I ask how much you actually know about actually *being in the military?*
I don't want to offend you, but a lot of people looking to join tend to forget that bit , when it's really the most important part .
All when the clostest they've been to military life are movies which are either terrible representations or great representations of *very specific parts* of the military .

You won't be a *doctor in the military*, you will be a *military doctor.*
That's why I recommend the Air Force.
Out of all the branches, it has the most in common with the civilian world in regards to its culture.
It's only 60 something years old , after all.
Okay, thanks so much for the info!
I think I still have a lot to research but my main reason against the marines was that they are very homogeneous.
From all the marines that I've met they all think and act the same way to the point where it freaks me out a little.
They subscribe to the same pages on facebook and whatnot , it's a little creep tbh .
I'm definitely going to look at the airforce, thanks to what you've suggested!

Look at it like this.
The Army is a military service , the Air Force is a business , the Navy is a "denim and leather" bar , and the Marines are a cult .
