CMV: Posting nude pictures online is caused by a need for attention and not empowering

Let me make this clear before I continue, I am not saying that people are not allowed to do what they like.
I don't care if people post nudes, I'm just saying that this is how I feel when I see people posting nudes.
Also, I don't mean to suggest that there is anything wrong with posting nudes.
Lastly, I have nothing wrong with nudity and am in fact a fan of nudity, I just don't understand exposing yourself to the entirety of the internet on a whim.

Whenever I see anyone, male or female, posting nude pictures on the internet, I immediately assume that they are somehow seeking attention.
Of course, that's the point, but I think that it must stem from some underlying need to get attention that they must either be lacking in some other part of their life , or simply need because that's their personality and that they feed off of attention.

Specifically in the case with women, many of my female friends, including my girlfriend (hence the throwaway) , have posted nudes and any time I ask them why, they somehow defend it with "it makes me feel good."
Of course, I ask them why it makes them feel good and most either don't have an answer or somehow deay it makes them feel empowered as a woman who is proud of her body.
I don't understand how posting images of yourself naked, often with the understanding that others will masturbate to you (/r/gonewild for example) is not empowering but instead a form of whoring yourself out in a sense.

So reddit, why do people post nudes? I seriously can't grasp the concept in a way that justifies this action, and have come into conflict with female friends and my gf and would like to be able to see this from another angle.

Thanks in advance.

EDIT:  Thank you for all of the replies!  You guys pointed out some clearly fallacious opinions I had and also showed me a multitude of other views on the issue.  This is a very personal issue that only pertains to my own beliefs and not something I go around spouting to others.  This was a good learning experience for myself, so again thank you all.  I have deltas to those I felt really stuck with the discussion, but I'd like to thank you all for commenting.

I guess my question for you would be: what is inherently wrong with seeking attention?

If you're doing so in a way that takes away from others, I can see the problem: e.g., if you're one of those people who feels the need to one-up *every* story at a party, you might need to learn to chill out and share the spotlight.

But if your contributions are welcome and socially appropriate (e.g., you're not spamming the subreddit with new posts), then why does the "attention seeking" (if that's what it is) strike you as being a problem?
Like I said, I have no problem with it, it just means (to me) that that person is seeking attention that they areas not receiving in their interpersonal relationships that they already have and instead seeking that attention through a morally questionable practice with strangers .
To me anyway, this seems like that person has an underlying weakness.
&gt; it just means (to me) that that person is seeking attention that they areas not receiving in their interpersonal relationships that they already have

Can you really take care of exhibitionist desires just in your personal relationships?
I suppose some people might be satisfied with constructing fantasy scenarios with their partner.
But it is weakness to post pictures, or weakness to decide that you are too ashamed or worried about consequences to post pictures, even though you want to?
Are you saying that it is weakness to want to post pictures in the first place?
( To me, that would seem more of a preference than a strength or weakness. )
