CMV: I believe the Brave Little Toaster is an incredibly underrated movie

Ive seen a lot of animated movies in my life but in my opinion they dont stand up to the Brave Little Toaster.
The animation is very solid for being made in the 1980`s and I absolutely love the inanimate objects journey to try and find their master.
One very tense scene for me was when the vacuum cleaner was trying to cross the canyon.
However whenever people bring up animated movies they never bring up the Brave Little Toaster.
I feel like this masterpiece is largely unappreciated by a majority of people in favor of other animated movies.

Reddit I think the Brave Little Toaster needs some more attention and some more love.
CMV

The fact that it's underrated largely stems from the fact that by today's measure it's far from a children's movie, which unfortunately in western countries is generally the target demographic for animated features.

The same could be said for a lot of Animated movies from the 80s, Like Transformers, or Starchaser or Rock and Rule.

It's too dark , and almost violent .

Some examples would be, when the Flower observes it's own reflection in the toaster , and dies from loneliness when the toaster leaves .

The appliances that have their parts ripped out, are effectively a commentary on black market organ sales.


The cars singing "You're worthless." and the Toaster killing himself for the master .


I grew up watching the movie, and it doesn't bug me but so did a lot of moms my age, and when the alternative is Adventure Time or My Little Pony, I'm likely to think that Brave Little Toaster isn't good viewing material for kids in 2014 .
Concepts like death or dying in children's features are incredibly out of favor right now.
You can make arguments for something like Toy Story , but those franchises have been out for over 15 years, and so they get a pass from the now adults who enjoyed the movies as kids.

There have been a great many "dark" animated movies and shows that grew to become extremely famous.
If we`re using a level of "dark" of the level of Brave Little Toaster then why did things like The Iron Giant and Land Before Time get a ton of love associated with them.
Especially when one contains a death of someones mom and the other almost had an entire town nuked as well as a giant death machine moving through .
Land before Time has about 15 other movies in the franchise which make it popular, much like toy story , and Iron Giant doesn't really deal with much that's terribly dark or controversial .
One thing that I would say was insanely dark for the Brave Little Toaster would be the death of the Air Conditioner but I personally believe Iron Giant to be the darker film because of the war undertone .
