CMV: People over the retirement age (62) should not be allowed to participate in politics.

I've noticed that nearly everyone in Washington is extremely old.
I have always thought that that was a bad thing , because of a few reasons: 1. if you are already old, then the long-term consequences of your decisions probably won't happen until after you are gone, but will be horrible for all of us that are still around,

2.
if you are already retired, then you wouldn't know what it is like for a working person today, especially someone struggling to live paycheck-to-paycheck .

TL;DR: old people shouldn't be in politics because the consequences of their decisions won't affect them , and they don't understand what the circumstances of today are .

Should young adults with trust funds not be allowed to vote because they don't know what it is like to live pay check to pay check?
What about terminally ill adults?
They wont experience long term consequences.
What about the unemployed?
They don't pay income tax so they don't contribute (for the sake of argument).
Can we just start taking away the voting rights of everyone who has a different political ideology than you ( I assume this is what you are really getting at, "can the old people just die so we can have some progress already!?!?" )?

Also, if old people can't vote than who will represent their interests?
You are making the argument that because they aren't living through what younger generations are living through then they can't make informed voting decisions regarding those people.
Well how can you expect young people who haven't experienced being old to make informed voting decisions regarding retirement? You could say that young people will vote in interests of creating the best retirements because they will some day retire but do you really expect people to prioritizes decades in the future over the short term?
&gt; Should young adults with trust funds not be allowed to vote because they don't know what it is like to live pay check to pay check? What about terminally ill adults? They wont experience long term consequences. What about the unemployed? They don't pay income tax so they don't contribute (for the sake of argument). Can we just start taking away the voting rights of everyone who has a different political ideology than you (I assume this is what you are really getting at, "can the old people just die so we can have some progress already!?!?")?

This actually is a good point.
I would be inclined to say that terminally ill people shouldn't be elected either , because they wouldn't have to deal with the consequences either .
In my view, I'd say that homeless people would be ideal for leaders , since they know exactly what the problems are , although they don't contribute financially.
Still, this (especially the trust fund part) is making me realize it isn't a perfect idea, although I still believe it is a good idea .

&gt; Also, if old people can't vote than who will represent their interests?

I really don't think that the over 62 demographic has any concerns that effect (affect?) just them.

&gt; Well how can you expect young people who haven't experienced being old to make informed voting decisions regarding retirement?

As you mentioned, it will directly impact them in the future.

&gt; do you really expect people to prioritizes decades in the future over the short term?

I realize that they won't always prioritize long-term interests, but at least they have a reason to, unlike old people.

Hope I covered everything.
&gt; In my view, I'd say that homeless people would be ideal for leaders, since they know exactly what the problems are, although they don't contribute financially.

I get where you are coming from but I think you are putting too much stock in the idea that you can only empathize and understand a situation if you have lived through it .
I grant you that there is merit to that idea but, lets be frank, if someone is doesn't have their life together to the point where they are out on the streets, how can we expect them to lead anything?
This is why politicians have advisors on staff, so that they can get "expert" opinions when they are under educated on an issue.
America (and every other country in the world for that matter) has a vast array of problems ranging from social to economic to geopolitical , for this reason its better to have someone who is an effective problem solver .
While a homeless person might have some very valuable insight on dealing with life on the streets, that doesn't mean they would have strong ideas on how to actually go about solving that problem, not to mention on how to deal with America's complicated relationship with China (for example) .
This is why you see so many older people in politics , it takes time to build the experience (and contacts/wealth/name recognition) to be able to handle the massive amount of varying problems politicians face .
