CMV: Nativity scenes are antisemitic.

This has nothing to do with the celebration of Christmas excluding religious minorities , it's because traditional nativity scenes reinforce negative stereotypes about Jews .

As the story goes, when Jesus was about to be born his parents were travelling to Bethlehem, but when they got there the inn was full, so Mary had to give birth in the barn .
The problem is, if nativity scenes are any indication, baby Jesus was still in the manger when the three wise men came to visit and give him Christmas presents .
Most people know Jesus was born on Christmas, but less realize that the wise men didn't show up until the Epiphany twelve days later .

Are we honestly expected to believe that no vacancies opened up at the inn for almost two weeks? Because that would be the most unbelievable aspect of the entire story if you ask me , and it seriously strains credulity to begin with .

Even miracles make more sense in the context of the birth of the Son of God .
Maybe a virgin really could give birth to a deity, or a new star could magically appear over the birthplace , but there's no reason for the inn to miraculously have no rooms come open for nearly two weeks .
Plus Mary and Joseph would be the first to know when something came available since they were basically squatting in the garage and would surely notice when patrons came to get their ox or camel or whatever before leaving .

The obvious implication is that Jesus' chintzy Jewish stepdad was such a tightwad that he was willing to let his pubescent wife and her newborn baby sleep in donkey slop if it would save him a few shekels .
Joseph probably would have made that barn the family's permanent rent-free residence if the wise men hadn't showed up bearing enough cash and prizes to go live it up in Egypt .
After all, why did they stay so long anyway?
It's not like Mary needed the time to recuperate .
Thanks to baby Jesus' healing powers even her hymen immediately regenerated, kind of like the redhead vampire from True Blood or the cheerleader from Heroes .
( Not the real life Hayden Panettiere though, you know those gigantic Klitschkos split that wide open. )

MERRY CHRISTMAS!

Aren't Mary and Joseph, two holy people, especially perfect virgin Mary, both Jews? Wasn't Jesus a Jew??

Yes , but Joseph was just a regular Jew without the same kind of holiness as the other two.

Okay , nix Joseph, but the point remains that the son of god and his holy mother were Jews , so I wouldn't call a story about them antisemitic even if the villains in the story are also Jewish.
Isn't the characterization of Jews as "Christ-killers" rooted in antisemitism?
Because that's a part of the Easter story even though it was technically a Jew being crucified on Good Friday.
