CMV: Most democracies are far too tolerant of extremism, especially the likes of neo-fascism, neo-nazism, radical Islamism and violent intolerance.
The world has been to soft on these ideologies and they need to be eliminated whenever they appear.

I think some of the biggest threats to global stability comes from the political fringes.
It's either the extreme left, or the extreme right.
Radicalism almost always leads to violence, and is a plague on democratic society and governments.
Since communism has been relegated to just a handful of countries , the far-left has for the most part been dealt with .
However the far-right continues to be a menace.

I believe fascist neo-nazi groups, the KKK, the golden dawn or any religious extremist group like radical Islamism all fall under the far-right.
These groups are always extreme fringes , and a handful of people make the world a much nastier place .

Often it is the leaders of such movements that prey on the weak-willed, using them as pawns in their ambitions of power.

Unfortunately with the world's obsession with free speech and personal liberty , such leaders are given a free hand .
On websites like twitter and facebook we see ISIS recruit blind followers.
Wouldn't restricting "free speech" put brakes on this sort of recruitment ?

Political parties in democracies often try to keep these groups on a leash , but do not wish to eliminate them since they serve definite political goals like polarizing the electorate .
I see this as a major flaw in democracy.
Fear of losing votes from radical sympathizers leads to political groups appeasing extremism.

Instead, I think governments should do much more and try to completely stamp out any signs of fascism .
After the horrors of World War 2 I find it completely absurd that we still put up with their ideologies .

Bringing socio-economic growth to communities that feel disenfranchised just isn't enough , and their will always be a few bad apples .
These bad apples need to be weeded out .
Instead, we allow them to spread their rot, and infect society.

Nearly every "progressive" ideal was, at one point, considered an extremist ideology.
Yes but I think at this point in human history we have figured out what is an extremist ideology.
We thought the same thing 20, 50, and 200 years ago as well but we're no more inherently correct than they were.
