CMV: If a child struggles to achieve in grade school it is virtually always the parents' fault.

For the sake of this thread, we'll exclude children with medically diagnosed learning disabilities ; IMO the knowledge and resource base for teaching said children is probably proportionate to the percentage they make up of the overall population .

With a healthy child, income, neighborhood, peers and teachers should be filtered through a responsible parent(s).
A child who struggles in earnest or intentionally slacks off is a direct reflection of parenting.
I am curious regarding potential for more public accountability held to parents who fail to direct their child. ( maybe a monetary incentive derived from public tax coffers paid to parents of children who maintain a passing grade, to be withheld if child dips below .)

I think parents are virtually 100% responsible for producing scholastically successful children .
CMV.

I don't know man, raising a child is hard. You are leaving out so many factors.

-What about a one parent household?

-What is the state of the school?
Is this an unfunded, understaffed, inner city school?

-What if the child is being bullied/abused without the parents knowledge?

-Does this child have other, non LD problems(i.e. emotional, gender-identity)?


On top of all of that what about the child that does well despite a parents shittiness?
Do those parents receive your proposed monetary incentive?

I think the correlation is there, but to say 100% is too much of an absolute.

&gt;What about a one parent household?

So what? Again, many children come from handicapped households.
Why do some individuals call them excuses and others, motivation?

Really most of your problems you presented can be counteracted and even turned for benefit with a proper level of parental involvement.
I subscribe to the idea that there is no such thing as too much parenting.
Of course, with more involvement comes more responsibility to surgically manage involvement, emotions, rewards and punishments.

The last point about a shitty parent with a good student is, at first, a quandary.
After building in requirements for parents to attend a weekly P/T meeting and/or more, I think we could minimize the amount of shitty parents getting paid, and instead deposit that money into a trust for the student, paid upon graduation.


