CMV: I believe you have three choices once you discover the suffering animals endure in the meat industry...

The options are as follows :

1. You don't agree with what is going on and stop supporting it.

2. You don't care about animals, so you're content with paying for them to be abused for your pleasure.

3. You don't agree with what is going on, but try to put it to the back of your mind and continue to support it.

Reasoning: I used to follow 'option number 3', but recently started 'option number 1' in an attempt to line my actions up with my values.
I suspect this way of looking at it is still somewhat simplistic however , so feel free to prove me wrong.


&gt; You don't care about animals, so you're content with paying for them to be abused for your pleasure.

What about "I care about animals, but see it as a necessary evil for my sustenance."

I feel the same way about animals in medical research. I feel terrible for the animals , but it's necessary for the health of humans and a better option than researching on humans .


Slaughtering animals is not a necessary evil for your sustenance though (is it?
I don't know , for all I know you could be a hunter in the middle of nowhere in Alaska).


I am an omnivore, and my diet consists of meat and plants.
There is not a good way to supply meat at an industrial scale that doesn't involve some measure of suffering for the animal.

We could trade information back and forth as to whether or not it's possible to be happy and healthy without meat , but I'm firmly convinced that meat is a requirement for my diet.


Meat is the industry that creates the most suffering for animals though... Being the one that requires the most land usage and causes the most environmental issues as well as obviously slaughtering them.

Vegans are also the group least likely to die of heart disease, with vegetarians being second and omnivores being first (or the same, depending on which study you're looking at) .
I'm convinced it's a healthier diet, which is a nice bonus for being compassionate.

&gt; Meat is the industry that creates the most suffering for animals though... Being the one that requires the most land usage and causes the most environmental issues as well as obviously slaughtering them.

This doesn't really matter if it is something that is necessary.

&gt; Vegans are also the group least likely to die of heart disease, with vegetarians being second and omnivores being first (or the same, depending on which study you're looking at). I'm convinced it's a healthier diet, which is a nice bonus for being compassionate.

[This study](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20479151) shows that unprocessed meat is not linked to heart disease, but processed meat is .
I would also argue that a vegan *has* to be more conscious about their diet , and that extra attention results in health benefits .

Many people consider fish to be extremely healthy, and often include it in their "vegetarian" diets .
Eating fish has been associated with a *reduced* risk of heart disease.
Fish farms are equally as cruel as the rest of the meat industry , but we don't relate to them as much so they don't tug on our morals .

Certainly, you can still be healthy with alternative diets.
However, you have to curate your diet much more if you do not include meat. I'm not convinced that an equally curated diet including meat would not be healthier.

