CMV: I believe you have three choices once you discover the suffering animals endure in the meat industry...

The options are as follows :

1. You don't agree with what is going on and stop supporting it.

2. You don't care about animals, so you're content with paying for them to be abused for your pleasure.

3. You don't agree with what is going on, but try to put it to the back of your mind and continue to support it.

Reasoning: I used to follow 'option number 3', but recently started 'option number 1' in an attempt to line my actions up with my values.
I suspect this way of looking at it is still somewhat simplistic however , so feel free to prove me wrong.


(http://theconversation.com/ordering-the-vegetarian-meal-theres-more-animal-blood-on-your-hands-4659)
So what do you do when you discover [the suffering animals endure in the vegetarian food industry?]


Ahh I've seen that article before and it's incredibly flawed.
It boggles my mind it was even published in all honesty.

Livestock animals eat a hell of a lot more crops humans do right?
So if you're really concerned with the damage done by the land use of growing food , then not eating meat would be a great first step to reducing it .

The land required to feed one vegan for a single year is 1/6th of an acre and the land required to feed one meat eater for a year is 18 times more than that.

[Here's a cool infographic I found this morning](http://www.cowspiracy.com/infographic/)

&gt;Livestock animals eat a hell of a lot more crops humans do right?

Not all crops are created equal.
How much grass do you eat on an average day?
No mice are slowly poisoned to death growing grass, they are for the crops that humans eat.
Why, it's almost like you only read the top two paragraphs.


I read it a month or so ago I'm actually referring to corn.
More corn is produced for livestock than humans.

36% of all privately held acres in the US is used for growing corn just for livestock.

That's without even getting into the massive amounts of land used for soy and hay production for livestock.


Once again, read the article closely.
It's written by an Australian (where most livestock is grass-fed) , and explicitly notes that it only applies when livestock is fed on grass rather than grain .
The fact that the US uses a poor method of production is not an indictment of the meat industry as a whole.

