CMV: I believe you have three choices once you discover the suffering animals endure in the meat industry...

The options are as follows :

1. You don't agree with what is going on and stop supporting it.

2. You don't care about animals, so you're content with paying for them to be abused for your pleasure.

3. You don't agree with what is going on, but try to put it to the back of your mind and continue to support it.

Reasoning: I used to follow 'option number 3', but recently started 'option number 1' in an attempt to line my actions up with my values.
I suspect this way of looking at it is still somewhat simplistic however , so feel free to prove me wrong.


There is a 4th choice.
You can choose to not anthropomorphize animals, and, despite how much you love your dog , realize that a chicken is just a chicken, and that your farmed tilapia doesn't have the cognition to question whether it's life is worth living.

I want the animals to be raised humanely , and, yes, I want them to be killed humanely .
But it's not like a wild turkey sits on it's deathbed and thinks fondly of those days gone by, when it roamed free and raised its baby turkeys.
No, it thinks more "food? sex? food?".

Yes, they feel pain, but so does an earthworm, if you mean "experience messages that say 'bad things are happening - endeavor to stop them'".
They don't look back and say, "Man, remember when I bumped into that electric fence?
That hurt like hell."
The best they can manage is "Fence. Bad."

There is no "meaningful" or "meaningless" life for an animal - they don't philosophize beyond needs.
Most farm animals spend less time hungry, scratched by brambles, running from predators, etc than wild animals.
It doesn't make it a better of worse life - it's just existing.
That's the other choice - accepting that animals are less than humans.


&gt;a chicken is just a chicken

A chicken feels pain and suffering and does not want to feel those things as much as we do.

&gt;But it's not like a wild turkey sits on it's deathbed and thinks fondly of those days gone by, when it roamed free and raised its baby turkeys. No, it thinks more "food? sex? food?".

My sister is severely mentally disabled and most likely doesn't have the capacity to think fondly of days gone by on her death bed either.
Does intelligence really make much of a difference when it comes to the ethics of whether we can kill them without moral concern?

I still don't see any good argument for how animals are 'less' than humans (beyond our own obvious bias).

EDIT: formatting


How does a chicken "want" anything?
It is completely incapable of developing a though like, "Today would REALLY suck if that damn fox bites me again".

Yes, intelligence matters.
If not, we wouldn't allow brain-dead people to be unplugged.
Self-awareness puts one in a separate category than an animal.
But, regardless, I'm not trying to convince you not to care about animals , but that a rational person could come to the decision that those without higher cognition or self-awareness aren't equal.


Self awareness isn't a human-exclusive trait - dolphins, apes and elephants have been proven to possess it .
Regardless of self-awareness , the ability to suffer is what I regard as being more important to an individual.


That may be what YOU consider, but that's not what others consider , which is why they can validly reach different conclusions.

And "suffer" needs more definition to discuss whether it's something animals can do.

