CMV: I believe you have three choices once you discover the suffering animals endure in the meat industry...

The options are as follows :

1. You don't agree with what is going on and stop supporting it.

2. You don't care about animals, so you're content with paying for them to be abused for your pleasure.

3. You don't agree with what is going on, but try to put it to the back of your mind and continue to support it.

Reasoning: I used to follow 'option number 3', but recently started 'option number 1' in an attempt to line my actions up with my values.
I suspect this way of looking at it is still somewhat simplistic however , so feel free to prove me wrong.


Option 3.1415926: I buy all my meat from local farms that I know have free-range chickens and cows that are grass-fed and well-treated until they are humanely slaughtered , and once the technology exists to 3D-print a chicken breast that tastes about as good as the real thing at an affordable price with 0 animal death, I eat that instead.


I personally don't see any distinction between my pet dog and a chicken.
If I had to take my cat to be euthanised at the vet , I would never consider his throat being sliced by a machine as he hung upside down as humane treatment.
Probably not even a bolt to the brain either.

I agree that synthetic meat would be absolutely amazing though!


I do see a distinction between a pet and livestock , namely that we domesticated those pet animals for the purpose of companionship (and in the case of the dog, a symbiotic relationship involving feeding them scraps for protection against predators that their scent can pick up easier than our sight, particularly at night ), and have bonded with them specifically because their utility functions are greater as companions than as meat .
Chickens simply aren't.

Also, again, local farms and humane slaughtering, not factory farming.
As far as I'm aware, chickens at my local farm have their brains destroyed at the stem as quickly as possible while their head is chopped off.
Gory, but painless, as the pain center is instantly destroyed.
And I wouldn't want to witness it , but I would accept that as a humane death (as humane as we can make death, anyway) , as it has as little pain as we can deliver.
Admittedly, a better way would be a proper Brompton Cocktail , but that would taint meat, and so is unfeasible .

Finally, here is the big problem I have : It is literally impossible for me to live without other things dying.
I wish it weren't so , but it is .
Carrots get eaten or boiled alive and we have no evidence that suggests, one way or another, if that is causing them suffering , as their nervous system is sufficiently different from us that I believe we wouldn't know what we were looking for .
However, there are plants that emit pheromones to alert other plants of an impending insect-predator's presence and causes other plants in the area of the same type to activate defenses , and other plants that will actively tense up in response to needle pricks (which, further, will stop responding when exposed to typical anasthetics ), which tells me that when plants behave in an animal-like manner, they can and do respond to some sort of pain stimuli.

So, I don't consider plants to be necessarily more moral.

Further, I find death by human to be more humane than death by any other cause that most game or livestock animals could hope for .
At the best , chickens, pigs, deer, and cows would have their throats ripped out by weasels or wolves or whatever other predator.
At best they'd die slowly and painfully of some disease that they have no hope of overcoming, or slowly and painfully of starvation after breaking a leg and falling behind their herd .

Nature is not pretty , and we should be working to improve it .
I work best when I've had more to eat than a salad , so in the long run, future animals benefit more by my consumption of meat than they would if I was trying to go vegetarian/vegan .


I may have a different stance on seeing no difference between companion animals and farm animals because many of my pets are exotic and farm animals .
The fact we have domesticated some animals also does not mean they suffer any differently to their wild cousins.
Are you seriously saying you consider slaughtering an animal morally equal to harvesting a crop?


In a day, I eat maybe 1/3 of a cow or 1/2 of a chicken if I'm hungry
If I were eating veggies, I'd consume several plants .
I consider my 1 chicken/2 days to be morally equivalent to the 8 heads of lettuce/day it would take me to get the same basic caloric intake (note: I don't have any real accuracy for the amount per day, just a rough guesstimation) to be about morally equal.

&gt;The fact we have domesticated some animals also does not mean they suffer any differently to their wild cousins.

On the contrary: A sheep with a shepherd is many times less likely to have its throat ripped out by a wolf and having its last experience on earth be something as gruesome as the beginnings of being eaten.
A bolt to the brain sounds bad , but there is nothing past that instant .
No pain, no awareness, just cessation of life .
Ditto that for every other domestic food animal, and even animals that we hunt for food : at the very least we are less vicious than other predators in that we wait until the animal is definitely dead before we start eating it .

I'm not arguing that death at the hands of humans is better than living on ; in the general sense, living on is better than just about any death ; I'm arguing that of the potential ways to die, being killed is the best an animal can realistically hope for .

