CMV: I believe you have three choices once you discover the suffering animals endure in the meat industry...

The options are as follows :

1. You don't agree with what is going on and stop supporting it.

2. You don't care about animals, so you're content with paying for them to be abused for your pleasure.

3. You don't agree with what is going on, but try to put it to the back of your mind and continue to support it.

Reasoning: I used to follow 'option number 3', but recently started 'option number 1' in an attempt to line my actions up with my values.
I suspect this way of looking at it is still somewhat simplistic however , so feel free to prove me wrong.


What about Option 4: You hate animals and you want to see them killed.

View. Changed.


Shall we rule out sociopathy/psychopathy?


Hmm maybe if it makes it easier for you .
Although I can imagine someone that has empathy for humans but none for other animals.


Good point , although I regard that as speciesism.

I do have a Christian friend who is extremely charitable .
She's a carer, a foster mother and a complete romantic who writes novels about angels.
She 's obviously an all-round good and kind person , but she eats meat .

I rationalise this by realising that helping people is her passion , and perhaps her religion justifies a moral distinction between humans and non-human animals .
Doesn't the Bible claim something along the lines of that animals were created for the enjoyment of humans (I haven't read it myself)?


I think it's fairly normal to be a speciesist.
I want to make note that I'm not trying to argue from a point of naturalism in regards to what ought to be done , but that it shouldn't be that surprising when we encounter people that are that way .

I mean hell, it's hard enough for many people to empathize with *each other* , and you're asking them to try to put themselves in the hooves of a cow?
It's just beyond the scope for many people unless they seriously put the time in to think about it , and they've got their own lives to worry about .

To address your last question, yes, the bible states that all animals were put on earth by God to serve man .
There were rules against eating certain kinds , but overall the idea was that humans have dominion over all .
In which case, there is no cognitive dissonance , but this would probably fall under your 2nd line of reasoning .


&gt;I think it's fairly normal to be a speciesist. I want to make note that I'm not trying to argue from a point of naturalism in regards to what ought to be done, but that it shouldn't be that surprising when we encounter people that are that way.

Yes, speciesism is indeed the norm and I appreciate you taking the time to comment .
I asked this question so as to keep myself grounded in what other justifications my loved ones around me didn't have the same epiphany I did ( as it may not necessary be the same reasons I had for not going vegan sooner ).

&gt;I mean hell, it's hard enough for many people to empathize with each other, and you're asking them to try to put themselves in the hooves of a cow? It's just beyond the scope for many people unless they seriously put the time in to think about it, and they've got their own lives to worry about.

A very good reminder, thank you .
Not everyone is as obsessed with philosophy, psychology and nature as I am , just as I don't concern myself with keeping extremely up to date on world politics and Amnesty International petitions.

I'd still class it as option 3 though :P

