CMV: Humans are going to die out because of an economic collapse

Bill Gade presents the argument better than I do so I will just quote him.

&gt; There have been 4 jobs or activities which Man has engaged in throughout the centuries: Hunter/Gathering, Agriculture, Manufacturing, and Services. What's next? What category can you imagine in which billions of people will be working in the future?
&gt; It turns out that there is a final category. It is known as Unemployment. As Agriculture, Manufacturing, and Services become more efficient in the coming months, workers will have nowhere to go but to the unemployment line. At some point, Man's artificial economic system will necessarily collapse. When that happens, the corporations which produce and deliver food will no longer have an incentive to do so. The cities will suffer great hunger and it will be the end of Man.
&gt; The current jobless situation you read about in the news is not an ordinary part of the business cycle. It is the final stretch of the linear trend that began with the birth of our species.

There is also a Youtube video to go with this opinion.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rlQrYCacrKo

I do realize that this is a very unhealthy idea to have whether or not that the idea is true or not, I just have not been able to beat it myself.

I do disagree with Gade a little bit.
I don't think it would kill everybody, but the some few people that still know how to hunt and gather would probably survive as well people who were rich enough to have access to a lot of resources to start out with before the economy crashes.
I probably believe this because I listen to Alex Jones too much.


Something like this will take decades or centuries and won't be applied evenly across the entire planet.
I don't see how it's possible society couldn't adapt as the inevitability of a laborless civilization grows.


Are you sure?
Economic bubbles historically popped in a matter of months.


I have trouble equating a financial bubble with the entire world economy.
There are what, 5 thousand publicly traded US companies?
Yes, if they all went belly up we would have a problem but someone would pick up the slack.

