CMV: Veganism and vegetarianism are not the best way to improve farm animal welfare

Title is mostly to get attention, and I'm working from a specific set of assumptions.
My argument is as follows:

1) The chances of the entire world adopting a vegan/vegetarian diet are slim to none

1a) Therefore, there will always be a market for meat and other animal products

2) The food market, like all other markets, operates on general principles of supply and demand

3) Meat farmers can use techniques exhibiting a range of costs or benefits, both in terms of environmental impact and animal welfare.

4) A vegan or vegetarian diet denies demand, and thus potential revenue, to all meat-producing farms, regardless of how humane or environmentally sound their practice are.

4a) Since the majority of farms are large factory farms , I concede that this is probably good for animal welfare. **
However**:

5) Purchasing meat from farms known to produce their meat in an ethical way not only denies demand to large factory farms but helps improve the market share of ethical meat-growing , which seems as though it would be even better for animal welfare.

My general view is that people should probably as a rule eat less meat from better growers , and that will make for a bigger shift in growing practices than simply people dropping out of eating meat altogether.
Moreover, this practice would be much easier to "evangelize" than a vegetarian or vegan diet.
Face it, meat is tasty (and non-factory meat is often tastier than factory-farmed meat, at least in my own anecdotal experience)


Vegans decide not to eat meat because they want to make a statement about something they believe in, not necessarily because they want to improve animal welfare .
(although they likely do want to improve animal welfare ) Let me explain:

As you already pointed out, becoming a vegan has little to no affect on animal welfare.
People will always want meat and the market will always provide it.
Vegan that truly believes that they are directly helping animals by not eating meat are deluding themselves.
You are correct on this point.

So why do vegans decide to be vegans, if not to directly help animals?

Most vegans eat their burgers without beef because they want to make a statement. "
I believe that animals are being treated cruelly. because of this, I will not eat meat."
It's a bit like not going to a restaurant because they came out against a belief of yours.
If you believe in gay rights, you may decide not to go to chick-fil-a because of your belief.
Do you really believe that you not giving business will help in any way?
<!--premise type="logos_pathos" id="24" rel="support" rid="b" ref="19">no, you don't.</premise> </!-->
no, you don't.
You just want to make a statement.

<!--> TL;DR: You are correct, but you misinterpret the true motivation of vegans </!-->
TL;DR: You are correct, but you misinterpret the true motivation of vegans

Hope that helps.


I don't think I'm misinterpreting the motivations of vegans. I know from personal experience that people go vegan/vegetarian for a huge variety of reasons, from personal health to carbon footprint to animal welfare to ethics of eating meat to budget (meat is expensive).

&gt; I don't think I'm misinterpreting the motivations of vegans.

Your OP implied that you thought the purpose of veganism is was to improve animal welfare.
Forgive me if I misinterpreted you.

&gt; that people go vegan/vegetarian for a huge variety of reasons, from personal health to carbon footprint to animal welfare to ethics of eating meat to budget (meat is expensive).

Yes , these are all other reasons that people go into veganism.
However, since (I thought) your post pertained to the "Vegans are vegans because they hate the state of animal welfare," reasoning , I made my post primarily about the relationship between vegans and animal welfare.

