CMV: Veganism and vegetarianism are not the best way to improve farm animal welfare

Title is mostly to get attention, and I'm working from a specific set of assumptions.
My argument is as follows:

1) The chances of the entire world adopting a vegan/vegetarian diet are slim to none

1a) Therefore, there will always be a market for meat and other animal products

2) The food market, like all other markets, operates on general principles of supply and demand

3) Meat farmers can use techniques exhibiting a range of costs or benefits, both in terms of environmental impact and animal welfare.

4) A vegan or vegetarian diet denies demand, and thus potential revenue, to all meat-producing farms, regardless of how humane or environmentally sound their practice are.

4a) Since the majority of farms are large factory farms , I concede that this is probably good for animal welfare. **
However**:

5) Purchasing meat from farms known to produce their meat in an ethical way not only denies demand to large factory farms but helps improve the market share of ethical meat-growing , which seems as though it would be even better for animal welfare.

My general view is that people should probably as a rule eat less meat from better growers , and that will make for a bigger shift in growing practices than simply people dropping out of eating meat altogether.
Moreover, this practice would be much easier to "evangelize" than a vegetarian or vegan diet.
Face it, meat is tasty (and non-factory meat is often tastier than factory-farmed meat, at least in my own anecdotal experience)


A lot (dunno %) vegetarians/vegans see killing animals for food is fundamentally unethical.
So they are not doing it for better state of animal welfare in farms .
I personally don't have a problem with animals being killed humanely, so if I become vegetarian it would be about welfare .
But that's me.
But I agree with you that becoming vegetarian just for that is not very helpful for welfare .
I just see people's reasoning.


sure , but as i've mentioned several times, that's not the point of this particular CMV post.
The point is that responsible carnivory is better for general livestock welfare than veg*


Another strong pro-veg point is that meat production is really bad for environment.

