CMV: Veganism and vegetarianism are not the best way to improve farm animal welfare

Title is mostly to get attention, and I'm working from a specific set of assumptions.
My argument is as follows:

1) The chances of the entire world adopting a vegan/vegetarian diet are slim to none

1a) Therefore, there will always be a market for meat and other animal products

2) The food market, like all other markets, operates on general principles of supply and demand

3) Meat farmers can use techniques exhibiting a range of costs or benefits, both in terms of environmental impact and animal welfare.

4) A vegan or vegetarian diet denies demand, and thus potential revenue, to all meat-producing farms, regardless of how humane or environmentally sound their practice are.

4a) Since the majority of farms are large factory farms , I concede that this is probably good for animal welfare. **
However**:

5) Purchasing meat from farms known to produce their meat in an ethical way not only denies demand to large factory farms but helps improve the market share of ethical meat-growing , which seems as though it would be even better for animal welfare.

My general view is that people should probably as a rule eat less meat from better growers , and that will make for a bigger shift in growing practices than simply people dropping out of eating meat altogether.
Moreover, this practice would be much easier to "evangelize" than a vegetarian or vegan diet.
Face it, meat is tasty (and non-factory meat is often tastier than factory-farmed meat, at least in my own anecdotal experience)


It really depends on how you view animal welfare.
I think most vegetarians see killing and eating an animal as wrong regardless of how good the conditions it lives in are.


I guess that this comes from my utilitarian-in-most-cases ethics.
I believe that small-medium improvements over large scales, such as an entire market, are better than large improvements at tiny scales.

Moreover, this CMV is not about "veganism and vegetarianism are bad" it's about "eating meat responsibly is better for animal welfare than abstaining from eating meat"

