CMV: I believe that regularly browsing 4chan will make you into a worse person

Because of the anonymity on 4chan people are more prone to not think through, care about what they post and are quicker to throw out insults.
They will care about how people respond to them , but since it's largely negative they will stoop down to the same level rather than go to any high ground since they are not linked to an identity .

Surrounding the entire site there's a general pessimistic group mentality , and people are subconsciously encouraged to take part of it in order to feel like they are a part of the group .
Some boards will have specific groups of people who they are encouraged to hate, women, SJWs, casual gamers, Jews , and any reasonable argument against a poster can be made redundant by saying or thinking they are a part of these agendas or groups .

On boards you will find echo chambers where people are more prone to believe rumors than proof .
Things about e-celebrities will start as rumors , ideas about them or things will get taken out of context and it will be posted continually until it's taken as fact .
It will reach conspiracy theory levels of "proof" where people will simply believe it because they feel as if they are a part of a group-effort that's uncovering something.

Surrounding yourself with this will in general make you into a more pessimistic, negative and possibly depressive person.

I'm not saying that every person who browses 4chan is depressed or negative , but that the majority of them are affected negatively by browsing the site .

Thinking that you are unaffected by this doesn't necessarily mean you are, but instead means that you are unaware of how much it affects you.

EDIT: [Awarded Delta](http://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/comments/2rawgb/cmv_i_believe_that_regularly_browsing_4chan_will/cneyhn7?context=3)

&gt; Surrounding yourself with this will in general make you into a more pessimistic, negative and possibly depressive person.

&gt; I'm not saying that every person who browses 4chan is depressed or negative, but that the majority of them are affected negatively by browsing the site.

Is there any evidence or studies to support this?


I got the idea about "being around negative thinking will affect you negatively" from the book "Directional Thinking" by Benjamin Chapin.


okay. I sort of agree with you.
Was just curious if there had been any research you knew of

